README.md, before:

# Mallow Snatchers
An application for CS

## Specification Deliverable
### Elevator Pitch
Tired of family parties that inevitably just turn into awkward venting sessions? Look no further!
Mallow Snatchers is a fast-paced bidding game for the whole family! Be careful though---the more Mallows you grab, the more you'll want to keep playing, and you may have so much fun that you'll explode.

### Design
![Home screen before user logs in](MallowSnatchersUIhome.jpg)
On the home screen, the user will be able to join an open game or create their own once they have an account.

![Log in screen](MallowSnatchersUI_login.jpg)
This is an example of how the account creation/login screen would look.

Once a user is in a game, their only interaction with the server will be to tell the game when they "snatch" during each round of gameplay. The server will "roll" every three seconds and either add Mallows to a running total or end the round, depending on a random numnber generation.
If a user "snatches," they get as many Mallows as are on the running total at that time, but are locked in with that point value even if the number of Mallows increases with subsequent "rolls." If the server's random number determines that a given roll has ended the round, any player that failed to "snatch" gets 0 mallows.
![Mallow Snatchers gameplay](MallowSnatchersUI_gameplay.jpg)
A running Mallow total is displayed along the bottom of the screen, where a user's icon might increase in size in accordance with their point total.

### Key features
- Secure login and stored username
- Ability to join or create games
- Point totals from each user updated in real time
- Gameplay continues automatically until the end of all 15 rounds

### Technologies
I will use...
- **HTML** to structure the login and home screens and the UI for gameplay
- **CSS** to style the application objects and make sure things scale effectively for different systems
- **JAVASCRIPT** to handle user input and gameplay feedback
- **BACKEND SERVICE** to verify login and countdown timer/random number generator during gameplay
- **DB/LOGIN** to record login information: users must register to play.
- **WebSocket** to handle the communication between the "dealer" and the players; user input on one machine must be reflected in updates on the other players' devices so that the score and gameplay is consistent across all fronts.
- **React** to make the application look really good once I figure out how to use it.

## HTML Deliverable
### Requirements
- Simon HTML deployed to the production environment:
[simon HTML page](simon.mallowsnatchers.click)
- Link to GitHub startup repository displayed on the application homepage
- Notes in README.md documenting what you modified and added with this deliverable
- At least 10 git commits spread consistently throughout the assignment period

Commit message:

updated README and got rid of a typo in join file

README.md, after:

# Mallow Snatchers
An application for CS

## Specification Deliverable
### Elevator Pitch
Tired of family parties that inevitably just turn into awkward venting sessions? Look no further!
Mallow Snatchers is a fast-paced bidding game for the whole family! Be careful though---the more Mallows you grab, the more you'll want to keep playing, and you may have so much fun that you'll explode.

### Design
![Home screen before user logs in](MallowSnatchersUIhome.jpg)
On the home screen, the user will be able to join an open game or create their own once they have an account.

![Log in screen](MallowSnatchersUI_login.jpg)
This is an example of how the account creation/login screen would look.

Once a user is in a game, their only interaction with the server will be to tell the game when they "snatch" during each round of gameplay. The server will "roll" every three seconds and either add Mallows to a running total or end the round, depending on a random numnber generation.
If a user "snatches," they get as many Mallows as are on the running total at that time, but are locked in with that point value even if the number of Mallows increases with subsequent "rolls." If the server's random number determines that a given roll has ended the round, any player that failed to "snatch" gets 0 mallows.
![Mallow Snatchers gameplay](MallowSnatchersUI_gameplay.jpg)
A running Mallow total is displayed along the bottom of the screen, where a user's icon might increase in size in accordance with their point total.

### Key features
- Secure login and stored username
- Ability to join or create games
- Point totals from each user updated in real time
- Gameplay continues automatically until the end of all 15 rounds

### Technologies
I will use...
- **HTML** to structure the login and home screens and the UI for gameplay
- **CSS** to style the application objects and make sure things scale effectively for different systems
- **JAVASCRIPT** to handle user input and gameplay feedback
- **BACKEND SERVICE** to verify login and countdown timer/random number generator during gameplay
- **DB/LOGIN** to record login information: users must register to play.
- **WebSocket** to handle the communication between the "dealer" and the players; user input on one machine must be reflected in updates on the other players' devices so that the score and gameplay is consistent across all fronts.
- **React** to make the application look really good once I figure out how to use it.

## HTML Deliverable
### Requirements
For this deliverable I deployed the Simon HTML to my server and built the structure for my startup application using HTML.
- Simon HTML deployed to the production environment:
[simon HTML page](simon.mallowsnatchers.click)
- Startup HTML deployed to production environment:
[startup HTML page](startup.mallowsnatchers.click)
- **HTML pages** - Four pages. One default screen where a user is asked to register or log in. A lobby for creating or joining a game. A page for gameplay. An about page with instructions and all time best scores.
- **Links** - Nav menu links between different pages. Home page links to join. Join links to play. Play links to join if you quit.
- **Text** - There clearly is text in this webpage :)
- **3rd party service calls** - I might need to rely on a 3rd party service to do authentication or provide a random number for increasing the count on the mallow-meter during gameplay.
- **Images** - Mallow icon is visible in top-left, during game play, and on the scoreboard. Scale on scoreboard corresponds to a player's current score.
- **Login placeholder** - Visible on home page (index.html)
- **Database data placeholder** - Usernames/passwords/high scores are stored persistently on the site
- **WebSocket** - Will need to be used to update scores accross the players. If I am smart I can probably just get away with having the users send a flag when they click "snatch" and the server automatically calculates and distributes scoring information as the game progresses.
